Add docker deploy recipe (#2815)
withastro/docs: src/content/docs/en/recipes/docker.mdx

---
title: Build your Astro Site with Docker
description: Learn how to build your Astro site using Docker.
type: recipe
i18nReady: false
---

[Docker](<https://docker.com>) is a tool to build, deploy, and run applications using containers.

> Docker images and containers can be deployed to many different platforms, like AWS, Azure, and [Google Cloud](</en/guides/deploy/google-cloud/#cloud-run-ssr-and-static>). This recipe won't cover how to deploy your site to a specific platform, but show you how to set up Docker for your project.

Reviewer: Nit: unnecessary comma, also I personally find it weird to not have "will" here
```suggestion
Docker images and containers can be deployed to many different platforms, like AWS, Azure, and [Google Cloud](</en/guides/deploy/google-cloud/#cloud-run-ssr-and-static>). This recipe won't cover how to deploy your site to a specific platform but will show you how to set up Docker for your project.
```

## Prerequisites

- Docker installed on your local machine. You can find [installation instructions for your operating system here](<https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/>).
- A Dockerfile in your project. You can [learn more about Dockerfiles here](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/) and use the Dockerfiles in the following section as a starting point.

## Creating a Dockerfile

> Create a file called `Dockerfile` in your project's root directory. This file contains the instructions to build your site, which will differ depending on your needs. This guide can't show all possible options, but will give you starting points for SSR and static mode.

Reviewer: unnecessary comma
```suggestion
Create a file called `Dockerfile` in your project's root directory. This file contains the instructions to build your site, which will differ depending on your needs. This guide can't show all possible options but will give you starting points for SSR and static mode.
```

### SSR

> This Dockerfile will build your site and serve it using Node.js on port `3000`. It requires the [Node adapter](/en/guides/integrations-guide/node/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This Dockerfile will build your site and serve it using Node.js on port `3000` and therefore requires the [Node adapter](/en/guides/integrations-guide/node/) installed in your Astro project.
```

```docker title="Dockerfile"
FROM node:lts AS runtime
WORKDIR /app

COPY . .

RUN npm install
RUN npm run build

ENV HOST=0.0.0.0
ENV PORT=3000
EXPOSE 3000
CMD node ./dist/server/entry.mjs
```

:::tip[Keep this in mind]
These are just examples of Dockerfiles. You can customize them to your needs. For example, you could use another image, like `node:lts-alpine`:

```docker title="Dockerfile" del={1} add={2}
FROM node:lts as runtime
FROM node:lts-alpine as runtime
```
:::

### Static

> ##### Apache (httpd)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Apache (httpd)
```

The following Dockerfile will build your site and serve it using Apache htppd on port `80` with the default configuration.

```docker title="Dockerfile"
FROM node:lts AS build
WORKDIR /app
COPY . .
RUN npm i
RUN npm run build

FROM httpd:2.4 AS runtime
COPY --from=build /app/dist /usr/local/apache2/htdocs/
EXPOSE 80
```

:::caution[Recommendation]
Use this approach for simple websites that don't need any special configuration. For more complex websites, it is recommended to use a custom configuration, either in Apache or NGINX.
:::

> #### NGINX

Reviewer 2: Is this the example of the more advanced configuration? I'm a little confused by the heading levels.

h3 - Static
h5 - Apache
h4 - NGINX  (And, I'm assuming everything down to `## Recipe` is all the NGINX stuff?

Reviewer 3: Yep, should be h4!

```docker title="Dockerfile"
FROM node:lts AS build
WORKDIR /app
COPY package*.json ./
RUN npm install
COPY . .
RUN npm run build -- --mode custom

FROM nginx:alpine AS runtime
COPY ./nginx/nginx.conf /etc/nginx/nginx.conf
COPY --from=build /app/dist /usr/share/nginx/html
```

> Before you can actually build the Dockerfile above, you'll need to create a configuration file for NGINX. Create a folder called `nginx` in your project's root directory and create a file called `nginx.conf` inside.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to build the Dockerfile above, you'll also need to create a configuration file for NGINX. Create a folder called `nginx` in your project's root directory and create a file called `nginx.conf` inside.
```
 I'm not sure I like the "before  you can actually.. you need to"  phrasing. "Before" always SOUNDS like you were lied to (like, you should have done this before!) Even though that's not what you mean here. I might change to "in order to"...
